hi guys welcome back kalpesh witness
what day is it what day is it
it's Friday what does that mean it means
it's Q&A Friday let's get to it okay
number one rich man my goal is to do
that Ironman 70.3 next year and a full
Ironman in to kind of talk about
training kind of talk about my training
process for the event yeah there's many
many things I cook that I could talk
about the training number one follow our
plan so your first gold is Ironman 70.3
you need to establish what time do you
want to do it in what's your goal and
then find a plan that suits you okay
I'll put a link down below to the plan I
followed it's called a beginner program
but it requires training twice a day and
even though it says beginning a program
you can push yourself or not push
yourself as hard as you want so training
twice a day the hours are high and it
fits in really well with my lifestyle so
I'll put that down there's a
recommendation it's a free program so
you can follow that now the second thing
that I devices that don't crumble under
the pressure okay so if it's your first
Ironman 70.3 or I man whatever it is
there'll be a lot of pressure on your
shoulders okay
you'll set yourself a goal for your
first one you might want your goal just
to complete it or you might want to do
it in a time for me I always want to do
it in the time but you may just want to
complete it whatever your goal you will
start to feel pressure do not buckle
under the pressure do not do not respond
to the pressure in any way positively or
negatively okay the pressure just needs
to be not pushing down on you you just
need to be aware of the pressure around
you but don't respond to it just get on
with what you need to do don't do extra
training sessions because of the
pressure then do less training sessions
because of the pressure okay if you miss
a session don't worry about it just
stick to the plan one two three training
sessions missed it's not going to be the
end of the world so don't buckle under
the pressure follow a plan eat a healthy
diet and you'll be all good my man keep
me posted oh now Brenda Farris is asking
and they're doing the first full
marathon in October this year my time on
the half was 3 miles an hour but
all hills and 80 degrees so very helium
very hot so tough half-marathon you have
to do 4 miles an hour to get the
marathon done within the within the time
allocation should I work harder on time
or distance I think what you need to do
is follow a plan and work on both Brenda
to be honest with you you need to work
on building up your endurance but also
building up that speed a little bit if
you follow a beginner's plan one that
fits in with your lifestyle that is
going to be the one that helps you
achieve your goal and get that 4 miles
an hour or hopefully slightly faster
okay but you need to build up distance
and you also need to build up the speed
and a program will help you to do that
and you can just say whatever you trying
to do self 5 hour marathon or whatever
it is free sub 5 our mouth on plan type
it into Google that's going to come up
and that's going to give you some some
good free plans there pick one that fits
in with your lifestyle mari
81 murray 821 however long run longer
distances the marathon ultra is like in
the book Born to Run so when I run the
book Born to Run it did glorify and make
it sound as if grundy an ultramarathon
would be a lot of fun however I didn't
find running the marathon a lot of fun
so for now ultra marathon is definitely
not in the cards I quite prefer my short
distances going hard over a short
distance up until half marathon to be
honest with you so ultras are definitely
not on the car to me at the moment I'm
going to just enjoy running and for me
enjoying run is a short distance
aggressive hard running okay for me
so Never Say Never one day I'm sure I'll
do an octree marathon but I need to
crack this up three hour marathon before
I do that Nicolas alley
recently my right uncle's been honing
geez distance runs occasionally
preventing me from completing the run
take a man cause helps over the pain
won't go away with tape would you
recommend I recommend rest rest rest
rest rest rest okay if you're injured
you've got a nigga injury and there's
nothing you can do to help it you need
to rest and recover okay it's not the
advice you want to hear it's not the
advice that I want to hear when I get
injured
however in the past whenever I have been
injured it's been because I haven't
listened to my body it's been because
I've trained through an injury and made
it a lot worse okay so you start with a
minor injury you trained on it you
trained on it and trained on it sooner
or later
that minor injury is going to become a
major injury and it's going to really
take you out of the game andreas Ramos
you have a torn hip how about torn hip
labyrinth okay so that's a posterior
tear in the hip essentially if you've
got a tear anywhere again rest rest
possibly physio dr. go and see someone
about it
you definitely don't train I'd even not
even advise cross train or anything like
that you need to go and speak to a
physio someone that's going to help put
together a rehabilitation plan assess
how bad the injury is hopefully not too
bad but you need someone to tell you you
know what what extent you injured and
how long you should be out and what you
need to do in order to come back
stronger okay
so always err on the side of caution
right VanDerveer my hip my shins at home
what should I do
it seems like it's the same answer at a
time but you need to rest you need to
rest but also address the cause of the
shin pain okay so that the shoes that
you're wearing is that your technique is
it they're both are you just running too
much too soon are you running too fast
all of all of those things can can be a
combination so you need to focus on your
technique make sure you're landing under
your center of mass pushing back and
quite lectern over high cadence you
London on your your forefoot or your mid
foot and you've just got that nice easy
cadence okay you want to make sure
you're not running too far too far too
too far too fast okay so you don't want
to build up your mileage too too quickly
and you also don't just want to be up
there sprint in faster than what your
body should be allowing you to do okay
but if your shins are hurting all the
time then rest is ultimately gonna gonna
really help with that also ice baths are
like do help but I'll do a separate
video about ice baths okay and I may
even do a video of me plunging into an
ice bath and you can all have good laugh
of that okay
so last question from mr. Steve mojo
pulled my Achilles tendon very slightly
on a run last week Don
I've done over the last 300 I over done
the last 300 meters over each going for
gas on the way home person yeah kidness
ology taper on it and it seems to help
quite a lot how about use this type of
product what do you like to hear on the
pulleys natural weight so when I hurt my
ankle and I used kin this ology table of
the hell you pronounce it I use that all
the time in a desperate attempt sort of
convinced myself that that would stop
myself from getting more injured and
allow me to continue training it didn't
okay so maybe for peace of mind
it might help I used it I can't say to
be honest they they really helped speed
up my recovery all that much and but I
did use it what do I use it again
probably not it's a lot cheaper too when
I used it three years ago or two years
ago I do know it's a lot cheaper now
it's a lot easier to get hold of so
maybe maybe I would I'd hope not to be
in that position and I wish you all the
best with your recovery but to be honest
mmm I don't know I'm on the fence about
it no prob
I would probably save my money in the
future okay garden guys that's it for
the Q&A this week for the running one
look out for the nutrition one coming
next leave me comments questions down
below any comments on this video will be
addressed next week in next week's Q&A
you know what to do also look out
tomorrow for the video about how to make
your own sneaker clash witness intro to
one of my videos okay for thanking
everyone again to a thousand subscribers
all the rest of it you know what to do
like share subscribe if you haven't
already guys let's keep it rolling